you're watching maverick media educate
organized act
you
[Music]
thank you for joining pulse TV I'm your
host Sandeep I stir and today we're
visiting with Professor Peter Dale Scott
professor Scott was a Canadian diplomat
he worked he taught 30 years with UC
Berkeley teaching English he's a poet
his poem rode to Jakarta one of the most
important poems in decades political
poem he's the foremost voice for peace
an author of numerous books
independently and also co-authoring with
other authors he has a new book out
American war machine deep politics the
CIA global drug connection and the road
to Afghanistan professor Scott thank you
so much I'm glad to be with you yeah
thank you you know what when you decided
to write this book what made you decide
to write it what is the premise of the
book well it really been writing now for
since the Vietnam War and every every
new book that I've written there about
six or seven grow out of my original
frustration that seeing America go into
Vietnam and I mean a Canadian diplomat
for four years have a tiny bit of
exposure to the Indochina question and
the Agony's of the French at that time
and so I began by simply wanting to keep
America out of Vietnam but that as the
more I researched this I became
interested in the forces that drew us
into Vietnam and particularly what
distinguished my Vietnam research that I
became
quite obsessed with the fact that the
essential commitment to escalate the war
into an American war was made the
weekend of November 22nd 1963 within 48
hours of the assassination of President
Kennedy so those two subjects
assassination and war have been linked
in my mind and of course I've gone hot
and cold on this and was relatively
inactive in the 80s and 9 12 in 90s I
did a book about the Kennedy
assassination but when we had 9/11 and
then that was immediately followed by a
new war first in Afghanistan and also as
as clearly was going to happen in Iraq
that I guess is the immediate cause why
I wrote really two books the road to
9/11 which came out in 2007 and then I
had some chapters left over that didn't
fit into the road to 9/11 I thought they
were the best chapters so which is about
the rise of the drug trade in Southeast
Asia in the world of the CIA so I
essentially wrote the book to create a
home for those chapters and then while I
was writing it there's the war in
Afghanistan escalated so when my book
this latest book American war machines
spans the period from the early 50s and
the growth of the drug trade in
Southeast Asia up to Afghanistan and the
growth of the drug trade they're an
incredible book years of research and
that so I suggest to our audience if you
want to take a look and really
understand a few decades of American
politics you might check this book out
it's an excellent professor Scott I
wanted to ask you you know so much of
our own American history
it unfolds as being hidden from us for
example we didn't know that the weapons
of mass destruction were were not true
at the time and we went to war on that
basis so the term the matrix American
Empire all of that kind of languaging of
a description of what's going on in the
United States today where Americans are
blind to our own political involvement
domestically and internationally how
would you how would you reference that
how would you term that yeah I think the
same way about this problem and I'm very
aware and have been for really since
since the 60s that there is in addition
to what the America that we read about
in the newspapers and there is there's
also a deeper dimension to what's going
on which is why I've coined the phrase
deep politics and that beneath the
surface or events that happened I also
now I'm talking and since 9/11 I've come
to talk also about deep events events
which are treated as totally external
like the killing of the president
supposed to be done by alone that and
therefore not very interesting
historically or 9/11 it's nineteen
people coming from Asia I feel I call
these deep events because we've had a
number of them now Watergate iran-contra
and over and over we develop more and
more the sense that these are events
were not going to get the truth on
they're not going to go to the bottom of
and in the case of 9/11 it took three
years before the president even agreed
to sorry two years to have a Commission
and the Commission more and more evenly
chairman of it has said they didn't get
to the bottom of things I've said that
people lied to them at the Commission
those of us who are aware of the
politics that's
we now expect in a deep event that there
will be cover up that the American
people will not be allowed to get to the
truth of things and there's such
elemental facts that are mysterious
about 9/11 that weren't even looked at
by the Commission there's not a word
about them in the 9/11 report for
example who were the hijackers now we
were given a list of names within an
hour before the last plane went down the
FBI was sharing who the hijackers were
but within six days were three or four
people who came forward in other parts
of the world said that's me that's my
photograph while obviously I wasn't on
one of those planes and the FBI back in
September 2001 said we will have to
investigate this not a word about this
in the 9/11 Commission report it simply
assumes that the names we have are the
right names and it's a question of how
building World Trade Center building 7
went down wasn't hit by a plane
there was another building between it
and the towers that didn't go down and
yet this plane this building suddenly
about five o'clock that afternoon
collapsed in about seven seconds and the
question had been given to the
Commission to look at and is not a word
about it so we are not we're barely at
square one with the 9/11 Commission
report and I have to say we still after
almost 50 years don't know the truth of
what happened in Dallas Texas in 1963
those are deep events and they affect
our history that that it's not
inconsequential that after Kennedy was
killed his plans to take troops out of
Vietnam were an old and we were involved
in a hot war in Vietnam the excuse was
the Tonkin
incident or of 64 but it's now
absolutely clear a that the second
incident which is why American planes
went and bombed North Vietnam started
the hot war with North Vietnam it's now
clear that incident didn't happen and
what's even more alarming it's now clear
that people in Washington knew that it
hadn't happened before the authorization
was given to go ahead and send planes to
attack North Vietnam so that's why we
talk about deep politics and deep
history and deep events and deep forces
that are making this happen that we
don't fully understand and I've devoted
my life to this really but I don't claim
to really understand these things I just
claim to be aware of these problems that
need to be resolved so you've described
deep events that what would you how
would you define the term how would you
define deep when something happens and
it very quickly becomes clear that we're
not going to get to the bottom of the
deep event and I don't know if many
people who had that reaction
I didn't pay so much attention to the
Kennedy assassination but I must say the
moment that Lee Harvey Oswald is
supposed assassin was killed on
television by somebody who was a quite
strong links to the Dallas underground
and that was covered up it was clear to
me back then and we
mid-60s that there was this was a I
didn't call it that then but this was an
event where the the truth was being
concealed and so I watched Watergate
quite closely because I had the same
feeling and I watched her and Conte I
actually went to Washington I it was a
background consultant to Senator Kerry
when he was looking into the drug
aspects of the Contra activities and the
strong sense another thing and all these
things it turns out there's some kind of
CIA or intelligence involvement and all
of them and that is the point of
sensitivity that these things aren't
being some of the things are not being
exposed because the CIA doesn't want
them exposed that's very clear in the
Kennedy assassination and I would say
increasingly clear now in those other
events as I've mentioned as well in 1971
you had a personal experience that seems
to have impact in your ongoing work now
would you like to describe to us what
happened
and its relevance to your current work
you're talking about an event which was
which I open its new book American war
machine and ironically it's I now think
it was quite a significant event but
I'll tell it but I'll tell it first and
then you'll see why I think it's
important I had already published an
article about
about narcotics and the war in Vietnam
and the involvement of the CIA and
helping to back the PB troops in Burma
that were growing the poppy which was
creating a huge source of income for
capitalists in Southeast Asia and a
friend of mine Alfred McCoy was working
on a similar book his book came out both
our books came out the next year he el
McCoy was on his way by the way his book
the politics of heroin is the Bible now
in this area that was a mainstream book
bestseller and it's still imprinted
after 30 years on his way to Southeast
Asia he stopped here in Berkeley with me
I told him that I'd been at a kind of
unofficial war tribunal with a veteran
of Special Forces who said he had seen
heroin or opium being loaded onto CIA
planes of air America we phoned to him
in Palo Alto and said would he do an
interview and he said yes he'd be happy
to so the next morning Al and I drove in
his car down to Palo Alto and we reached
this address we walked up some steps and
rang the doorbell and the man came out
with his fingers to his lips like this
indicating we didn't want us to talk and
okay and then he motions us back down
the stairs to his mg which is parked in
the street and the mg has a steel door
with a hole about this big in it a huge
hole and he said now he's talking down
on the sidewalk and he says look at that
hole he said look at the floor of my ng
it's wouldn't it's not even scorched he
said that was an implosive device had to
come from my old unit so I can't talk to
you well what this meant was that
somebody was listening to the phone call
made from my house and we had
I think by definition this with a tiny
act of terrorism a relatively harmless
one to go that got hurt was a car but it
was intended to terrorize him into not
speaking which is what he did you know
this is I haven't had many things like
this happen in my life you would think
that I would remember it I didn't I
forgot it this is the point of the story
that it was so outside the scope of life
as I normally live it in America that my
brain said a processing that just
suppress it and I wrote a long poem that
as you've mentioned coming to Jakarta
which was recovering all these repressed
memories and one of the last ones I
recovered and it took about two years
was this event with the mg and the story
about drugs that never got told to us
well I saw al McCoy at a conference
about two or three months later and
asked him if he remembered and as I
expected he didn't remember it either
and at first I said okay al you you know
we went to interview that guy what
happened he said well I guess we didn't
interview him I said yes why didn't we
interview him and slowly but it took
time we recovered the memory in his
brain - and to this day his memory of it
is not exactly mine but the latest
edition of his book the politics of
heroin as I say this mainstream book in
the preface he quotes about eight
stanzas of my poem that's his way of
describing what happened that that
morning in Palo Alto so you could say in
a way this was a deep event that a very
small one but not with the political
consequences of things like Watergate
and 9/11 but there is again the
I mean I ask people watching this show
how do you explain what happened here
and I'm still at a loss of words I say
because it had to do with drugs I blame
it on what I call the global drug
connection but do I mean forces inside
the government
from law enforcement did it or was it
people in the drug trade or was it I
believe that there are a certain there's
a gray area in between where that
distinction is not as clear as we would
like it to be I remember to give another
example one of the first big anti-war
marches in Berkeley back in 65 we wanted
to go to the Oakland army terminal where
they were loading supplies for Vietnam
we knew we would never get there but we
were able to march through Berkeley but
when we got to the Oakland border the
Oakland Police were there and so were
the Hells Angels
well the Hells Angels we're a motorcycle
gang and everybody knew although I don't
know that it's I could prove it from
books or anything that they were heavily
involved in dope distribution in the
city of Oakland and they're they they
were right next to the Oakland Police
helping to block us from going in one of
the Hells Angels actually rushed forward
and broke the leg of a Berkeley
policeman but as far as I know he was
not arrested because they were the the
Hells Angels were a kind of unofficial
law enforcement for the Oakland Police
even though they were on the wrong side
of the law and there was a great deal of
that back in the 60s I must say in that
respect this is a perhaps a better
country now it was then another episode
book as low Bergman who is now famous on
Frontline and there was even a movie
about it he does produce it shows for
PBS in those things he was at a small
alternative anti-war newspaper in San
Diego and luckily he wasn't went there
that night that some people came by and
threw a firebomb into the newspapers
offices he could have killed somebody
and it turned out that this was done
with the unofficial tolerance and
protection of the San Diego police that
was the place where using these kind of
irregular forces and that's the kind of
thing that my study of deep politics has
focused on the involvement of the
undergrowth of the underworld in quite
important activities so three years I
said and I think the world has come
around to agree with me that Ruby who's
presented in the Jack Ruby on site for
younger people the man who killed Lee
Harvey Oswald on television on November
25th 1963 they that the Warren Report
said he was a loner and it said that
they they actually the FBI went to the
Chicago underworld to the top people in
the underworld and said was he part of
the mob and Tony Accardo was they had to
flee Chicago any words no no he's not
mob connected and the Warren Report used
that as proof that he wasn't mob
connected but he was not connected and
one of my first books spent a lot of
time proving that and I must say that I
know I think is accepted the House
Committee on assassinations had a
thousand page appendix a thousand pages
about Jack Ruby's robbed connection
so the host committee of assassinations
produced a thousand page report appendix
which was Ruby's mob connections but
when I went through it I realized that
it too had been cherry picked so that
the crucial mob connections were left
out of the thousand pages this is more
and more examples of how the what
reaches the public eye with respect to
these deep events is a heavily processed
and the most relevant parts are
suppressed and so I say in addition to
archival history and I really fault the
universities here that they they
continue to talk as if Lee Harvey Oswald
was a lone killer and we have one kind
of history that comes out of history
departments and then we have another
kind of history deep history which you
can now thank goodness read on the
internet and hear about in programs like
yours but we have we have if we want to
live in a civilized up-to-date modern
society we pride ourselves on being an
open society and and America deserves to
pride itself on that in many ways it is
remarkable job of different national
ethnic groups and so on living together
in a relatively open society but there
is this dark area of deep politics and
unexplained deep forces and I doubt that
in my lifetime I will ever know the
facts about how the door that
mg was blown open by an incendiary
device I just expected to know that for
our viewers a professor Scott has
written four different books related to
the Kennedy assassination it's not
correct professor well it depends what
you call a book okay the big one is deep
politics and the death of JFK the front
before that there was a sort of
monograph called crime and cover-up and
recently there's a reissue of a book I
did in 1972 called the war conspiracy
but in the back of it I have quite
extended comparisons of two deep events
that look totally dissimilar the Kennedy
assassination on 11/22/63 and then the
events of 9/11 2001
but there are actually some rather
disturbing similarities and I'll just
give two one is that the culprits were
identified almost immediately with
information that information was sent
out that conform to what was said I'll
take the Oswald example they within 15
minutes they were looking for someone
who was 9 feet 11 165 pounds and aged in
their 30s that corresponds with the the
height and the weight are exactly what
was in Oswald's FBI file it
unfortunately wasn't Oswald's actual
weight he was and when they weighed that
his body
two days later wasn't a hundred and
sixty five pounds or 141 which is quite
significantly different and yet they
used that to look for house wood and
similarly they had all these names of
the hijackers
within an hour but it's not quite clear
but whatever the facts about the
hijackers those were stolen identities
even to the photographs of good London
lead people who was living said yes I
lost my passport some years ago and
there was this freak thing that your
name they found two passports what I
found a passport at the near the towers
with the name of one of the hijackers I
found another passport in Pennsylvania
near they nothing is said about this in
the 9/11 Commission report because it
looks like planted evidence and that's
another similarity there was planted
evidence to lead a paper trail leading
to the culprits in both cases so anyway
in this book I go into 15 analogies and
I worked at this for some time I was
getting close to the end before I
realized where one of the biggest
analogies of all is that both events
were followed by America going into a
crazy war that it should not have gone
into first in Vietnam most more and more
people now say that was a tragic error
but it was also an obvious error and
then the same with Afghanistan bubble
Iraq Iraq it was totally insane and how
do we have in one of the most advanced
countries in the world without most
highly educated etc etc what has
happened to our politics that it has at
its center this is the title of American
war machine there's an aspect we have a
public constitution that's excellent we
have all kinds of processes for
elections and so on which on paper at
least very are very good but at the
center particularly since World War two
we have developed a more and more highly
concentrated secret apparatus that gets
us involved
in wars and if we don't do something
about it it's going to get us involved
in more Wars them because even if we get
out of Afghanistan what that as long as
we have this war on terror is always
going to be some terror terrorism even
an enemy it's it's a technique and if if
we were to be lucky enough to see as
President Obama wants to see us start
withdrawing from Afghanistan in 2011 and
if that ends in peace I make a certain
prediction that product drug production
will go way down in Afghanistan
just as in the 1970s it went way down in
Indochina
but then concurrently started to go way
up in Afghanistan so I foresee that if
we get peace in Afghanistan and orderly
control of the regions where the drugs
are old drug production will go down in
Afghanistan and will go up somewhere
else maybe in and maybe Somalia and if
we don't do something about Washington
we will have new wars in Somalia I just
started reading Bob Woodward's book
Obama's Wars and he confirms what I
already had read that by the time Obama
was became president CIA was fighting
the war on terror in 60 countries this
is a bigger world war than world war 1
in world war two when it comes to
geography
we didn't those wars were fought in 60
countries and my understanding is that
in the two years that Obama has been
president that it is expanded to still
more countries and Congress isn't doing
anything about
and the American public aren't even
aware of it that's why I keep saying we
have to be aware of these things going
on in the background because in the
seeds probably in these 60 countries
it's very small operations but if
they're unchecked they grow and grow and
grow and particularly in Yemen right now
I think it's and Pakistan of course I
should have mentioned these are two
countries where it's not small anymore
and America is sending drones into both
countries and is sending people on the
ground into both countries and as I say
if it's not checked it will get much
bigger you say Congress isn't playing a
role in this particularly what would you
say to the media's role in keeping the
American people in the blind on so many
of our key issues yes the when I talk
about the American war machine the focus
may be in Washington but it isn't just
Washington President Eisenhower alerted
us to the dangers of a
military-industrial complex and that is
what we are dealing with now when you
know he made that warning in 1961 and it
was still I would have said a minority
sector of the American economy and
American industrial system and so on it
has grown in Rome there was a chance for
it to shrink after he pulled out of
Vietnam and in both my books wrote to
9/11 is when I look at the 70s it was a
choice of go back to being a trading
nation and cut back on the military and
some people wanted to do that but some
other people said no no no we're pulling
out of Vietnam but that means we have to
increase our war our defense budget and
the second group were certainly a
minority when it comes to
public opinion but they were also they
were very well financed by the
military-industrial complex and they are
the group that succeeded so that we now
essentially have a military economy in
this country we are not the kind of
producers of all kinds of goods that we
used to be automobiles forget it but you
would say there are some areas where
we're still cutting edge like aircraft
were pretty good electronics were
extremely good computers all that sort
of thing
those are war related industries and is
the key to our dominance in civilian
electronics like iPhones and so on the
bottom of that is the miniature raisin
miniaturization of electronics which was
subsidized by the US government as part
of its military and space development
plans so we are a war economy and the
newspapers which was your question our
part of Eisenhower didn't mention
newspapers and I have to say this is a
big difference from the Vietnam War and
the Afghan war and Iraq war that the
newspapers provided about the only end
and television the media provided the
only large-scale criticism of the war
that we had back then there were also
individual observers on the ground but
the newspapers did a relatively good job
of reporting about how the war wasn't
working the way that general
Westmoreland was reporting that it was
working and this this is what helps you
through that in the draft helped fuel
the anti-war movement that was a factor
in bringing
or to the end now newspapers are more
dependent than ever on the government
for their information and particularly
in Iraq all the reporters were embedded
in the troops they were they were really
subject to military discipline they went
where the army said they could go and
they didn't go where they already said
they couldn't go and and this is another
factor in this is being as my friend and
Magda Keon has written about a friend a
neighbor that there's been corporate
consolidation of the media and
specifically the the gap between the
industrial military industrial complex
and the media complex has narrowed and
you had friends Multan big corporate
firms that were in the war business
bought the media and read particularly
ABC at a certain point was being more
critical than the other networks of what
was going on in government and this was
at a time when William Casey was the
head of the CIA and a corporation that
William Casey had a personal connection
to bought ABC and in ways like this and
that's not the only factor I mean
corporate concentration is one another
is the that the major source of
significant news being the government
the so-called responsible media have to
maintain good relations with the
government or they won't get the
information and that was one of the
issues with the Pentagon Papers that
when
The Washington Post and The New York
Times defied Nixon and published the
papers he didn't want published the
response of Mitchell who was Nixon's
attorney general was we're going to
punish the Washington Post take away its
TV license and in the end the net a
battle royal then in the end Russian
post New York Times won and Nixon
resigned but if Nixon hadn't resigned I
think the Washington Post would have
lost its television license and that is
an object lesson which all the media
remember that they are independent
particularly in television which is a
matter of licenses dependent on
government favors so we are defacing a
war machine that reaches into the
economy reaches into the media and this
is an aspect I didn't write so much but
reaches into the Academy that political
science professors get their promotions
by books that are subsidized by the CIA
by their access to sitting on committees
in Washington that gives them status
that casts a shadow over the whole
political science field of the Academy
and that's why I actually my PhD was in
vertical science but I chose to follow a
different career and taught in English
where I didn't have to deal with that
one not give as much with that kind of
shadow cast over in Academy a professor
Scott in your book you make a reference
to the financial military-industrial
complex would you like to elucidate on
that a little bit yes I I think that by
the way president eysan
hours speech about the
military-industrial complex was very
important and very accurate at that time
and it's interesting that he had to do
it more or less in secret most of his
staff were unaware he was going to do
this but it's grown since his time and
if so that it's true I will now talk
actually at one point I think I said the
financial owed to the financial
petroleum military-industrial complex
New York Wall Street has always been
behind the CIA and so on but Wall Street
investments in the military-industrial
complex have become more and more
important to friends like Lehman
Brothers its defunct now but it became
giant because of its investment in the
military industrial complex and other
firms still surviving goldman sachs all
did the same things and i actually in
the road to 9/11 trace the career of one
man it begins as a military officer and
then he's an officer in a one of the
defense industries and then he ends up
in new york with one of the big
financial firms so there is that unity
linking the financial world to the
others also petroleum is huge i mean
some of our biggest multinational
corporations are Exxon Chevron and they
work with the CIA closely and they are
major with one of the major consumers of
petroleum is the US Armed Forces
a great deal of oil goes to used to be
the Navy but now you mentioned the wars
in Afghanistan and Iraq are major so and
what all the stuff is going on in
Central Asia whether it's Iraq or
Afghanistan it's clear that America sees
that the world's oil reserves are
running out that most of the unproven
reserves are will Iraq itself but also
places like Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan
oil and gas maybe not quite as much as
they thought at one time there would be
but the covert politics the reason why
Casey for example used Arab Afghans to
cross into Russia into the Soviet excuse
me the Soviet Union and stir up trouble
there is they were playing a kind of
covert politics which led to the breakup
of the Soviet Union which led to Chevron
and Exxon being major major investors
now in Kazakhstan and they want to have
US troops somewhere near so that the
heads of these countries will think of
themselves as Friends of America and not
as they would otherwise friends of
Russia and there's quite a lot being
played out there under the surface that
involves the petroleum companies along
with the CIA and the US Armed Forces
and cannot be petroleum side of things
it's complicated I can't give it to you
in a sentence but it certainly
undereyes why we have fought Wars and
Afghanistan and in Iraq so it is a
complex it's not the same thing some
people would just say America is a
fascist dictatorship and I never say
that I don't believe it I do believe
that America is a constitutional
democracy whose processes have been
threatened and in part superseded by
this American war machine which takes
advantage of the openness of American
politics and as the decades go by has
more and more money to dominate the
political process so that it's becoming
harder and harder to use democracy to
defeat this war machine but it's
important to keep in mind that the war
machine is not America and that is
vividly this illustrated for example in
1963 when you have a president who is
determined to start taking troops out of
Vietnam and the war machine is already
equally determined to escalate the war
in Vietnam and the result is a head-on
collision and the president is
assassinated in a deep event which to
this day remains unsolved
professor Scott I do we have a precedent
with Kahn tell Pro with what's going on
today COINTELPRO was a series of
programs ever actually FBI programs
short for counterintelligence what but
what it was in practice was infiltration
of the anti warm of the big ones were
against the Martin Luther King against
the Black Panthers I was a little in a
little bay area Institute we all we did
was
publish stuff about the war and there
were only about 12 lists I believe there
was a COINTELPRO directed against us and
I remember I gave a talk by invitation
only to about 10 people was all arranged
over the phone and an 11th person turned
up look we didn't none of us knew him he
said I heard about it on KP I say well
he certainly didn't he was he was kind
of trading our little thing that was a
major aspect of America in the time of
the Vietnam War and also the it affected
very much various African American
movements like the Black Panthers could
be quite bloody there they people were
set up to be killed and when someone
murdered the head of the Black Panthers
in Chicago was flat-out murdered by the
Chicago Police he was asleep in bed and
they came in riddled in with machine-gun
bullets the CIA was also at that time
quite illegally it was not in their
Charter but they were they had operation
chaos which was also surveillance on and
I think more than surveillance I've seen
this operation chaos documents on one
man who's whose offense was that he
turned up at a protest with a placard
and the CIA did investigation on find
out who he was so of course it doesn't
have to be called COINTELPRO now because
thanks to 9/11 we had the institutional
right that very morning before the last
plane went down the institution of what
they're called continuity of government
procedures and this is something I've
been talking a lot about recently and I
talked about in an hour
and one she planned secret plans that
Cheney and Rumsfeld among others had
been working on for 20 years originally
plans for response to a nuclear attacks
or their very extreme plans like
sustaining the Constitution imposing
military government two of them very
clear from what we know from the 1980s
when they were working on it
warrantless surveillance and warrantless
detention and since since 9/11 we've had
both of those people have no idea how
the impact on the muds on Muslims in
this country Arabs in this country how
many of them were surveilled in this way
and how many of them were detained
without UK BIA Scorpius is something
that goes back to Magna Carta and to the
Bill of Rights in England in the 17th
century and it's essentially it's
mentioned in what's mentioned in the
Constitution are the conditions under
which you can override it but the
assumption is you will have it
we don't have it because of continuity
of government and I must say and there's
a state of emergency that is justifies
the continuity of government proceedings
and when Obama was elected a former
congressman and I appealed to Obama and
appealed to the Congress to do something
about the state of emergency and to do
something about this of these Co G
regulations and there's actually a
statute one of the post-watergate
reforms was a statute it says if there's
an emergency proclaim Congress must not
has the right to but must by law review
that state of emergency and either
approve it or terminate
well we've had a state of emergency now
for ten years or nine years and Congress
hasn't done what my law it should do and
when I tried to mount some kind of
nationwide protests on this one of the
congressman replied to a constituent he
said well that's because that contract
statute has been overridden by
continuity of government well I've been
saying all along that cottony a
government has superseded the
Constitution and this if true would be
an example of it another is that in 2007
when George Bush extended the
proclamation of emergency he attended in
an appendix certain continuity of
government new procedures and the
congressman Pete DeFazio from Oregon
under pressure again from the 9/11 truth
movement asked to see those measures he
was on the Homeland Security Committee
which would have been the relevant House
Committee he was told he couldn't see
them so he got the chairman of his
committee to sign a letter with him
requesting to see them and they were
told I think they were told they didn't
have the clearance to see them so here's
a whole aspect of government which is an
effect superseding the regular
government and Congress is sold it
doesn't have the right to look at it I
can consider this extremely important
and again it's unfortunate that so few
Americans know about it but I wish they
would go in Google for those of you who
have computers and web access Google for
the continuity of government or
proclamation of emergency and see this
terrible situation where
where apparently Congress is so they
don't have the power well if we don't
have checks and balances we don't have
the American Constitution as it is
designed and we should at least know
that Professor Scott what is the
significance of a current role of
surveillance and detention in the
creation of what I would call the matrix
mindset I think you have Brzezinski FEMA
connection and what is the real grand
chessboard well I did the last thing you
asked was about vision skis his grand
chessboard and he is described
geopolitics as a kind of game of chess
in which the major powers of the world
are struggling to win control of the
Deus geopolitical center of the world
which is centered Central Asia and I had
a chapter in my book about the real
grand chessboard is saying which is
talking about geopolitics and I'm glad
you brought this up to some people
geopolitics is a science and there have
been some sensible Papers written in it
but underlying it is the idea of total
control of the world which is the game
that's being played and this has reached
into strategic planning in the Pentagon
and they actually have this strategic
dominance document which I quote from
which is saying that it is the objective
of the United States students have the
power to control any situation anywhere
in the world and I am asking us to step
back for a moment and realize that this
is insane just totally insane but
America can't control a country like
Afghanistan or a country like Iraq it
surely should have learned in the last
decade that it can't even control and
large
let alone control any situation in that
country and yet that is what the what
these strategic planning
thanks to geopolitical thinkers like
Brzezinski not just Brzezinski Cheney is
a equally guilty Rumsfeld
probably equally guilty but certainly
Cheney when he was Secretary of Defense
under George Bush the first I tried to
push this doctrine on to say and it's it
is insane and and it's particularly
ironic that the man who developed this
thing sir what's his man Mike ender back
in 1919 he developed his doctrine of
geopolitics at a time when Britain had
technically won the first world war but
in so doing had weakened itself to the
extent that it was no longer going to
play the role that was being depicted
for it in theory by geopolitics and
Geoparks was then taken over by the
Nazis and that was the source of their
drug costantly the idea that they would
drive to the east and create a rice that
would last for a thousand years
that was their doctrine and the rice
didn't last a thousand years it lasted
barely a decade and now America at the
stage where it essentially has lost its
cutting edge dominance it is still a
dominant power but it's not dominant the
way it was in the 1950s when it
dominated militarily and also
economically and also financially well
we still dominate
Carolee but like britain in 1919 we are
no longer the financial and economic
power we have sacrificed our financial
and economic power to preserve a
military establishment that we don't
need and is in the long run going to do
its more harm than good and certainly
isn't protecting us from terrorism I
want to make that point some good
progress is being made against Al Qaeda
in the last decade it is all being
police work the military efforts have
been a disaster and we have just put now
a hundred thousand new troops and is
that many more mercenaries or
contractors and how many al Qaeda in
Afghanistan according to Bob according
to the advisories to Obama less than
sixty they've all moved somewhere else
we put the military into Afghanistan and
they did the obvious thing and move next
door to Pakistan so are we then going to
invade Pakistan which has nuclear
weapons I sincerely hope they don't but
I don't totally rule it out I don't
totally rule out action against Iran
which Israel desperately wants and which
may or may not happen but my big point
is that this doctrine of geopolitics is
a kind of rationalization for military
power that is is part of the disease it
is it is corrupted thinking it's very
profitable thinking and in the chapter
when I talk about the real brand
chessboard and talking about all these
private military corporations and
private intelligence corporations who
are in this for profit and therefore
their motives they should not be allowed
to lay a finger on strategic planning
because they will obviously plan for
what is profitable and you know a lot of
words were wasted trying to figure out
why we made a mistake about the weapons
of mass destruction in Iraq well the
simple answer is we made that mistake
collectively as a nation because we
relied on private intelligence from
private intelligence contractors right
SAIC
in particular who had a profit reason to
say that they were there and it's
particularly a sign of how bad things of
God in Washington that the question of
finding out why we made that mistake was
contracted out to a private contractor
which was SAIC so SAIC was given the job
of investigating itself and no surprise
they failed to mention that SAIC had
been a big part of the reason why we
went in because our intelligence now is
being handed out to private contractors
surveillance is being handed out to
private contractors and this is a mask
by the way for the militarization of
police work in this country which was
done in 2002 as a result I would say of
CEO G when we created a military command
for America NORTHCOM we have a SOUTHCOM
for South America CENTCOM for Central
Asia
NORTHCOM for North America doesn't
hasn't you know we're not fighting a war
here yet but on the intelligence level
in surveillance level they are involved
at the grassroots level together with
private contractors and with local
police agencies and this is a
militarization of the way this country
is run that there were statutes that
expressly provide this is so-called
Posse Comitatus acts which limited any
military involvement to
extreme emergency and that is a dead
letter now because they're involved with
everything and and as I say it's very
disappointing that the Democrats coming
in in 2009 they had had the president
say they control they certainly
controlled the house they with barely
control the Senate from time to time did
nothing about this so we're going to
have to turn the country around but it's
going to have to come from outside the
existing political process it's going to
have to be done on the level of
mobilizing civil society to change
what's happening in particularly to
train Americans against money and
there's so much money now coming in that
American voters are going to have to
just figure out which candidates getting
the most money and vote for the opposite
one because money is the source of the
corruption pressure to squat in your
book you talk quite a bit about Mexico
did we touch on Mexico the relevance of
Mexico and all of this yeah I like chose
to begin by looking at the global drug
connection abroad because it is the
country where first of all the FBI has
been in active the longest and it is
also the country where most whose drug
trafficking is most intimately linked to
American consumption and as we can see
from the headlines from day to day it is
a point where the really the drug forces
in Mexico have penetrated government
may have they are fighting a war now
where you don't even know which side the
drug forces are on because most of the
significant drug victories against drug
kingpins are done with the help of other
drug kingpins who want to see them
overthrown so it is a very corrupt
society and what I can and they've also
I don't want to sound act anti-mexican
it is a country or there's some very
courageous efforts to deal with this
great risk and a great loss of life
it's almost thirty thousand people now
who died in the drug wars in Mexico this
is a state of war and what I in my
chapter want to point out that one of
the culprits here is the CIA who built
out the connection with a particular
Mexican agency it's now defunct with
this successor agency is still there
oh the directional generality Security
done the DFS that the CIA knew it was
involved in drug trafficking and at
simultaneously preferred to work with it
over all other agencies it's a little
metaphor for what has happened all over
the world where the CIA's done the same
sort of thing in Thailand and Lebanon in
Vietnam with million new
and I mean I could go and with Ally
rallied Karzai the brother of the
President of Afghanistan but the results
have been so disastrous in Mexico and
it's and we've seen me that no American
agency has done what it should have done
even they they had a great sting in this
operation Casablanca where they lured a
lot of people into a bank to launder the
funds and then arrested them and
eventually the whole thing was hushed up
at a higher level this was in Nevada
that was Americans in the position to
put these people in jail no it was it's
always a question of higher political
concerns and so really it's not even
properly written about me I'm one of the
very few books I think that mentions it
so Banamex was involved in laundering
the drug money and Marita banks were
including dynamics and let me help me
there was it Robert Rubin who was then
the secretary of the Treasury who killed
the investigation then he went back to I
think it was Citibank and Citibank
simply bought Banamex and then Citibank
got involved in its own drug money and
on
during scheduled but I don't want to
pick on one bank right
there's another Bank Wachovia admitted
to laundering 485 billion dollars and
they paid a fine of I'm doing this from
memory I may be wrong something like 30
or 40 billion dollars and again the
whole thing is hushed up because
Wachovia is defunct
taken over by the bank where I Bank
Wells Fargo but it is a reminder to us
that although it's always presented to
us in the media is if people the Taliban
is profiting from drug money
everybody's profiting including big
banks in America which over and over
will plead no contest and pay a fine
which is always a tiny percentage of the
money that they made that was a bank in
Boston that was dealing directly with
the underworld in Boston laundering
their funds it's not usually as naked
that more usually they are the ones in
New York that create a private bank and
then we prep the brother of the
President of Mexico comes with a few
hundred million he would like to in
deposit and no questions are asked
they've created the bank to deal with
these deposits president of Nigeria the
same thing profitable to the banks in
Boston and ahead of the UN Office of
Drugs and Crime when we had the huge
downturn in 2007 he said it wasn't very
well reported in this country that he
knew of banks that only survived in that
downturn
laundering drug money drug drug money is
a significant factor you there are all
kinds of estimates and not all of them
are useless I I would say but the fact
is they're a significant factor in the
global economy that I think the top
three just on the question of values in
trade the top three commodities on
international markets in whatever order
are petroleum arms and drugs and drugs
and arms go together because where you
have an illicit drug trade frequently
one way that they paid for is arms going
in the other direction
normally it melds into all kinds of
things into stolen cars into trafficking
with humans these essentially sex slave
trade which is very big all these things
grow out of drugs that's why it's so
important we should be dealing with
drugs and we're not dealing with drugs
and in fact
the easiest way to deal with drugs to be
done right here in this country which
would be to legalize them and maybe when
I say legalize I really mean
decriminalize you can still we don't
want to see massive drug consumption in
this country you can establish controls
on how drugs are consumed but you have
to take the big profits out of it and
that would be the best way to shrink the
global drug traffic and as long as we
have people in Washington as we do now
saying we will never talk about
legalization they are saying we will
continue to make it easy for the
drug traffickers to reap these huge
profits if you marijuana for example
it's a big issue right now
if people could grow their own marijuana
herd for one thing they would be
consuming a much less powered potent
part of it because sinsemilla and all
these variants of marijuana to be
developed so that you can pack more
power into less space that is being to
meet the needs of drug trafficking
illegal drug trafficking if California
could tax the marijuana industry in
California it could get out of its
economic crisis very quickly I doubt
it's going to happen because the
financial interests are too big now
it's going to be very very but that
would be a way to start you said in your
book that the United States backdoor
covert foreign policy has been a single
largest cause of the illicit drugs
flooding the entire world could you talk
about how the opium and poppy production
the poppy growth and opium production in
Afghanistan is funding our wars today
well I can talk with most confidences
back in time right after World War two
the world drug trade was severely
interrupted by World War two and was
right after the war and significant
since that time it is built up very very
rapidly and you can trace where it was
built up if I could just talk about
opium and opiates it built up first in
Burma afterwards that was with an army
there that was being
and and financed and it needed to be
supplied by air so we created an airline
of CIA airline that flew arms in and we
had an arrangement with Taiwan and the
colder down there that they co-owned the
planes so the planes would fly the drugs
out these were landlocked armies and
Burma CIA but I should say the United
States by its conscious decision to
supply that army was responsible for the
building up of the drug trade in that
area before the war Burma was not a
significant factor in the global drug
trade but it went in about a decade from
maybe 880 tons to 800 tons something
like that in a huge increase and as I've
said already this continued to increase
we're getting out of the golden triangle
by at the height of the war something
like 1200 tons but America pulled out of
that area the drug consumption didn't
disagree production didn't disappear but
it shrank and what is very alarming to
me that the way you have created the
demand production supply will meet
demand and that's when you begin to see
a buildup in Afghanistan and then
suddenly lo and behold the CIA is
conducting covert operations in
Afghanistan again I'm condensing history
but there is no doubt that we supplied
something like more than a billion
dollars certainly to Mujahideen in
Afghanistan and about half of that went
to one single man who didn't Hekmatyar
who in that period
came arguably the largest heroin
trafficker in the world so everywhere
where the CIA has been involved these
not I put it the other way around
everywhere that drug production has gone
has increased rapidly like this it is
more complicated than what I'm saying
but the general rule is you see that the
CIA is being there I should have
mentioned Lebanon in the decay a valley
which is also a source of drugs both
marijuana and now to some extent opium
and it's the CIA is no longer powerful
the way it was but in the fifties when
it built up the CIA was involved with
the people who were building it up
cocaine in Colombia Colombia has become
the major source of that is the country
where the United States and CIA have
been most involved and I will say that
in 1990 I was at a drug conference just
when President Bush announced his Andes
project to take to fight a war there's
going to be a war on drugs that was the
name of it and I said if we fight that
war in Colombia I predict that the drug
production will go up and the drug
importation into this country will go up
and even I in 1990 had no idea that in
10 years the drug production would
multiply by a factor it would be three
times whether it be in 1990 so you want
to end the importance of drugs from
Colombia and CIA operations in Colombia
it's very simple it's not going to
happen that there is yes I say I I don't
want to sound as if there's only one
thing that made all this how
it is a complicated story and it's quite
a big book where I write about it but
anyone who reads that book I think will
share my feeling is it terribly wrong
decisions were made and we which are by
Americans which are a major factor in
the bomb that we face today one of the
pictures in your book you have a
American soldier walking through a poppy
field in Afghanistan we know that the
amount of opium coming out of
Afghanistan is multiplied - could you
speak to that mm just before America
went into Afghanistan the Taliban in
response - they wanted to be recognized
because at that time only three
countries recognize him in America said
would you have to get rid of the poppy
production well the Taliban use ruthless
measures but they did they got
essentially got rid of it in their area
and the only drugs that came out of
Afghanistan in that area came up in the
northeast from Badakhshan which was
under the control of the Northern
Alliance well in 2001 America went into
Afghanistan and surprised surprised we
went in allies were the Northern
Alliance and they had to make a decision
in Washington well they're drug
traffickers but they're useful we'll use
them in America not only allied with
drug traffickers on the ground they even
brought a drug trafficker back from
France where he had retired saying we
are going into Afghanistan we want you
to help us so and then in short order I
don't even want to take the base year
the year that there was no drug
production but before that it was under
4000 tons and in eight years it was
8,000 tonnes and it's it's shrunk since
then but the major reason it's shrunk is
that there are now various blights which
are affecting the opium crop
a monoculture in huge areas of
Afghanistan and that has a result that
their natural consequences instill the
source of something like 90% of the
world's opiates and and this is all the
before 1979 when the CIA first went in
there its contribution to the global
drug trade was insignificant and its
contribution to American consumption was
insignificant after one year of American
involvement by according to the Reagan
government statistics something like
sixty percent so there are consequences
of doing these things and if we were to
go into Yemen in a big way the same
thing would happen again a professor
Scott very quickly what is for sex I
talked in the road to 911 about a deep
state in this country drawing on the
analogy of Turkey where there's a very
clearly established study with CIA help
parallel state that with impunity kills
people and finances itself from drugs
and is allied with the security elements
of the government I decided in this
country to go easy on the notion of a
deep state but I'm I'm linked to it a
lot but it it connotes to people hearing
at the idea that there's something in
this country but like there is in Turkey
well I don't see that I do see that the
public state at various points and
there's more than one interfaces with
powers outside with the underworld but
particularly with what I call the
overworld people who are wealthy enough
and have enough financial influence to
guide policies
and that there has been those forces on
pushing us in the direction of
militarization for four decades and I
and my book talk about a force X that is
driving us that way that I'm afraid that
my real answer is yet to read my book
because it isn't something for which
there's a simple answer but I think
there is a cumulative picture of bad
decisions made particularly in the CIA
to ally themselves with underworld
elements and with drug trafficking
elements which has contributed it turned
us in Asia from being having a defense
establishment and to having what was
clearly now an offense establishment and
it's the offense establishment that God
is in to Vietnam and to Iraq into
Afghanistan and we have to go back to
having a defense establishment but to
deal with that you've got to deal with
all the factors I'm talk about in my
book
professor Scott has been a pleasure
thank you so very much thank you thank
you
[Music]